# Getting Started #


## Download Eclipse ##

The first thing that you need in order to create a BPMN extension by using BPMN+X is a copy of Eclipse Modeling Tools. In this tutorial, we will use Eclipse Indigo. Download it by clicking [here](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/technology/epp/downloads/release/indigo/SR2/eclipse-modeling-indigo-SR2-win32.zip&url=http://espelhos.edugraf.ufsc.br/eclipse//technology/epp/downloads/release/indigo/SR2/eclipse-modeling-indigo-SR2-win32.zip&mirror_id=575) and unzip it in a folder of your choice.

## Install Dependencies ##
Run eclipse, leave the workspace name as is and click Ok.
After that, go to Help -> Install Modeling Components. The window shown in Figure 1 will be displayed. Select the Jet, Operational QVT and OCL Tools Components and click Finish.

http://bpmnx.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/getting_started/InstallComponents.JPG

**Figure 1. Eclipse Modeling components.**

When prompted, select all the items shown to be installed. Then click Next twice, accept the terms and click Finish. Click Restart Now once the components are downloaded and installed.

Then, download the UML2Tools http://bpmnx.googlecode.com/files/mdt-uml2tools-Update-incubation-I201103290512.zip update site. Open the eclipse window and select Help -> Install New Software.  Click Add and then Archive and select the file you have just downloaded and click OK.

http://bpmnx.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/getting_started/InstallUML2Tools.JPG

**Figure 2: Opening the UML2Tools Update Site.**

Then select all the items shown to be installed, click Next twice, accept the terms and click Finish. Click Ok if any Warning is displayed. Finally, restart Eclipse.

http://bpmnx.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/getting_started/SelectUML2Tools.JPG

**Figure 3: Selecting items to be installed.**

Once Eclipse starts, select Help -> Install New Software. In the Work With drop down, select _Indigo-http ://download.eclipse.org/releases/indigo/_. Then, check the _Web, XML, Java EE and OSGi Enterprise Development_
, click Next twice, accept the terms, click Finish and restart Eclipse again.

## Install BPMN+X plugins ##
The BPMN+X plugins are available here http://bpmnx.googlecode.com/files/plugins_v3.zip. Download and unzip them. Copy the four jar files you have just unzipped to the **path\_to\_eclipse/eclipse/plugins** folder and restart eclipse.

## Try the sample projects ##
Download the Sample Workspace by clicking [here](http://bpmnx.googlecode.com/files/workspace_v5.zip) and unzip the file. In the Eclipse ide, click File -> Switch Workspace -> Other and Browse the folder you have just unzipped. Right click the Package Explorer and click Refresh.
Then unfold the model folder within the _org.cidisi.bpmn.extensions.samples.workdistribution_ project. Open workDistribution.umlclass to see the sample BPMN+X model provided.

http://bpmnx.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/getting_started/OpenBPMNX.JPG

**Figure 4: Browsing the BPMN+X model.**

Finally, run the Sample QVT and Sample JET transformations in order to produce machine-readable files representing the provided extension.

http://bpmnx.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/getting_started/Running%20Transformations.JPG

**Figure 5. Running the transformations**

The files produced by the umlToXSD transformation are:

  * workDistribution.xmlschema

  * workDistribution.xmlschema.qvtotrace



The files produced by the Jet Transformation are

  * workDistribution.xsd

  * workDistribution\_binding.xsd

  * dump.xml


The Jet transformation also copies the files defining the BPMN interchange format to the output folder:

  * BPMN20.xsd

  * BPMNDI.xsd

  * DC.xsd

  * DI.xsd

  * Semantic.xsd

# Generating Java Code #

The generation of java code for the production of valid BPMN 2.0 process definitions applying extensions is supported by JAXB. The JAXB libraries have been downloaded from [here](http://jaxb.java.net/2.1/JAXB2_20061211.jar), placed within the org.cidisi.bpmn.extensions.samples.workdistribution/lib folder and added to the project's build path for you.

In order to produce the Java code, right click the workDistribution\_binding.xsd file generated by the JET transformation, go to Generate -> JAXB classes... and then click Finish.

To test the generated code, open the org.cidisi.bpmn.extensions.samples.test package within the src folder of the sample project, right click ExtensionTest.java and go to Run AS -> Java Application. You will see an instance of a BPMN 2.0 process definition applying the extension presented in this tutorial.

Browse the _org.cidisi.bpmn.extensions.samples.test/ExtensionTest.java_ and _org.cidisi.bpmn.extensions.utils/ExtendedDefinition.java_ to see how the generated code can be used to produce valid BPMN 2.0 definitions.